Number::Format - Convert numbers to strings with pretty formatting

Version: 1.52

WHAT IS IT

Number::Format is a library for formatting numbers.  Functions are
provided for converting numbers to strings in a variety of ways, and
to convert strings that contain numbers back into numeric form.  The
output formats may include thousands separators - characters inserted
between each group of three characters counting right to left from the
decimal point.  The characters used for the decimal point and the
thousands separator come from the locale information or can be
specified by the user.

Also of note is the format_picture command which converts a number
into a string using a "picture" string that you provide.  This is
similar to the PRINT USING statement that some versions of BASIC have.

In addition, functions exist to generate strings for numbers
containing currency (e.g. "USD 9.99", "DEM 20.00", etc.) or for
rounding large values of bytes to the nearest giga/mega/kilo
(e.g. "1.5M", "640K", etc.).


ALSO AVAILABLE

The following are also available as part of the number-format
Sourceforge project:
  - Template Toolkit users: Use Template::Plugin::Number::Format
    (contributed by Darren Chamberlain) from your templates.
  - JavaScript users: we also have a JavaScript translation of the
    Number::Format done by Cees Hek.


HOW TO GET

Download it from your favorite CPAN mirror, or from the Sourceforge
project:

    http://sourceforge.net/projects/number-format/

If you are interested in being a developer for this project, or for
more information, please contact William R. Ward, SwPrAwM@cpan.org
(remove "SPAM" before sending email, leaving only my initials).
    

BUILDING/INSTALLING

Perl version 5.8 or higher is required, though it may work on older
versions if you edit the 'require 5.008' line.  This package is set up
to configure and build like a typical Perl extension.  To build:

        perl Makefile.PL
        make
	make test
        make install

NOTE: You may need super-user access to install.


PROBLEMS/BUG REPORTS

Please submit your issues via the bug tracker on SourceForge or send
email (see HOW TO GET, above).


MAILING LIST

We have an electronic mailing list for announcements of new releases
of this module.  If you wish to join this list, visit this URL:
    http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/number-format-announce

We also have a mailing list for developers which you may join if you
are interested in contributing to the project:
    https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/number-format-developers

We do not yet have any list for users of the module; if you would like
one, let us know and we will look into it.

There are also forums available on the SourceForge site:
    http://sourceforge.net/forum/?group_id=175334


CREDITS AND LICENSES

This package is copyright 1997-2006 by William R. Ward et al., and may
be distributed under terms of the Artistic License used to cover Perl
itself.  See the file "Artistic" in your distribution of Perl for
details of copy and distribution terms.


RECENT CHANGES

Changes for version 1.52 (Sep 21, 2006)
------------------------
  - Minor patch to t/format_price.t addressing failling tests

Changes for version 1.51 (Apr 26, 2006)
------------------------
  - Patch to t/format_price.t to work with non-US locales

Changes for version 1.5 (Feb 14, 2005)
------------------------
  - Add Perl 5.8 and POSIX.pm to minimum requirements.
  - Minor bug fixes - see CHANGES for details
  - Change format_bytes to support options (precision, unit, and base)
    instead of precision number

See the file "CHANGES" for more details and previous changes.  You
can also browse the CVS history on SourceForge for full details.
